well I had either internet people hoods
bubble again so tonight's one of those
nights where it's really just for one of
you but it should be interesting for
everybody tonight we're going to talk
about a woman named Elizabeth Mary Jane
Cochran she went by pinky when she was
little she wanted to be a journalist and
eventually she got on at the Pittsburgh
dispatch she did a lot of investigative
reporting about factories women in
factories the conditions they were in
uncovered some pretty disturbing stuff
Factory started to complain she got
moved from doing that kind of reporting
to covering like gardening and fashion
shows you know good stuff for women to
cover she couldn't deal with that
so she decided she's gonna be a foreign
correspondent and she takes off and
heads down to Mexico not too long later
she had to flee Mexico because she spoke
up for journalists who had been
imprisoned at this point she's like 21
22 she gets back and they put her back
doing fashion articles and stuff like
that fluff pieces so she quits
eventually she winds up walking into the
offices the New York world that's
Pulitzers paper and they hire her not
too long after that she checks into a
boardinghouse and something's wrong
she's up all night everybody around her
knows something's wrong she starts
acting a little weird and the next
morning people are really concerned she
hasn't slept and she's like I'm not
crazy you're crazy you never know what
crazy people are gonna do eventually the
cops come they take her she goes sees a
judge next thing she knows she is on
Blackwell's Island which is a Asylum
she's there for 10 days before the
newspaper comes and gets her the book
they came out of that let's call it ten
days in the madhouse and the whole thing
was staged she faked being ill so she
could get committed so she could uncover
the neglect and the brutality that women
faced on this island reforms were made
because of what she did now at this
point this is a cool wife I mean you can
you can stop now but no not too long
after that she takes the clothes on her
back a couple extra pairs of underwear
an overcoat and a bag of toiletries and
sets out to do something that jules
verne said could be done in 80 days
travel all the way around the world she
did it in 72 she did it in 72 she became
a leading industrialist got two patents
one something to do with a garbage can
and one with milk containers during war
one she was over there covering it and
got arrested falsely arrested as a
British spy the end of the day why did
she get to live such a cool life do so
many crazy things because when she saw
the White Rabbit and had a chance for an
adventure
she took it she followed the round she
won't wear a letter most people that
have lives like that that's the thing
they have in common it's normally the
only thing they have in common
is that when they had the chance they
said yes
and they went anyway it's just a thought
y'all have a good night